Around the world in 80…Drinks? L.A. Nightlife takes inspiration from far-flung locals.

DEEP IN THE HEART OF TEXAS If everything is bigger in Texas, then Ebanos Crossingdowntown is destined to be huge. Named after the Lone Star State’s Los Ebanos border crossing, which smugglers in the Prohibition era used to transport liquor from Mexico to the United States, this speak-easy represents the region in Southwest-inspired tipples and eats. Beverage director Philip Ward, hail-ing from NYC’s Mayahuel, created such concoctions as the Ebanos Old Fashioned with bacon-infused bourbon, mezcal, agave nectar and bitters as well as the Bear Flag Revolt (rye whiskey, mezcal, vermouth, Bénédictine and mole bitters). Bar bites on the menu might include a fried chicken sandwich with pickled jalapeño slaw and chipotle aïoli. Ebanos Crossing’s interior design scheme isn’t straight out of the Old West, but the decor hints at a bygone era with antique chandeliers and a handcrafted glass bar.

SOUTHERN HOSPITALITY Think a ramshackle Georgia townhouse isn’t a sexy setting for a lounge? See Sassafras, one of the most romantic and glamorous watering holes to hit Hol-lywood in recent memory. A genuine disassembled Savannah townhouse was reconstructed on storied Vine Street and given new life as a craft cocktail bar, thanks to the 1933 Group, known for such mainstay nightspots as Bigfoot Lodge. Decorated with antique portraits and cozy armchairs, with bits of Spanish moss clinging to the ceiling, Sassafras telegraphs a hip Southern Gothic vibe reinforced by regional libation and food menus. Pair your Peach Moonshine Crusta (house-infused peach moonshine sweetened with brown sugar and lemon) or a barrel-aged cocktail, of which there are seven varieties, with a shrimp po’ boy or bowl of good old-fashioned jambalaya.

FRENCH TOASTS Can the Sofitel hotel re-create the French Riviera just outside West Hollywood? Sure, they Cannes! Formerly Stone Rose Lounge, the renamed and totally revamped Riviera 31 was inspired by the Cote d’Azur’s legendary party scene. Black-and-white-striped upholstery and splashes of red convey Gallic glamour, as does the chic outdoor patio with wingback chairs shaded by cano-pies. As you listen to a pianist play classics from Edith Piaf and Jacques Brel, imbibe cocktails crafted by mixol-ogist Matthew Biancaniello (we like the Riviera Sunset Martini with pisco, elderflower liqueur, rosemary syrup, and fresh lime and grapefruit juices) while enjoying nibbles such as gougères filled with Fourme d’Ambert blue cheese or a Provençale-inspired flatbread.