On the topic of Los Angeles, writer D.H. Lawrence sniffed, “I wouldn’t want to live here, but a stay here rather amuses me. It’s a sort of crazy-sensible.” A century after that back-handed compliment, seven locals spread across the county agree that the only thing better than visiting is staying. They tell why they love where they live, why you should check out their ‘hoods, and favorite spots that you’d why i be crazy to miss.

Silver Lake

Music surrounds Greg Katz. An award-winning law journalist turned music-industry consultant, Katz works on tunes by day and by night: The Silver Lake resident plays bass and sings in LA Font, an emerging rock quartet. And nights when he’s not playing at the clubs on L.A.’s Eastside, he’s usu-ally in the audience. “I’m a musician, I’ve always been a musician, and I work in music, and [the Eastside] is where all the music energy is. Pretty much everything that is great that comes out of L.A. that’s not mainstream pop music comes from that little corridor.” In addition to the creative spirit found in Silver Lake and surrounding neighborhoods such as Echo Park and Los Feliz, the convenience factor of the area is what Katz appreciates. “You can walk out of your house and go do 10 fun things without needing to drive,” he enthuses. For him, those “fun things” might include hitting a bookstore, grabbing a cup of artisan coffee or sharing a vegetarian dinner with his girlfriend, Traci. He says, “I’m always proud to show off to people we’re not all sitting in traffic here. Some of us are having fun and exploring the things that we love, and we’re not doing it from behind the wheel on the freeway.”