FINALLY, THERE ARE GREAT FINE-DINING OPTIONS FOR VEGETARIANS (AND THE CARNIVORES WHO LOVE THEM).

In the not-too-distant past, following a vegetarian or vegan diet entailed having extremely limited, boring, often tasteless options when eating at fine restaurants. Too often these diners would get stuck with plain green salads and simply sauced pastas while the carnivorous folks around them had many more—and more exciting—dishes to choose from.

But much has changed, and there’s never been a better time to find great plant-based dining in L.A. than now—something that animal-rights group PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) recognized when it recently named Los Angeles the third most vegan-friendly city in the nation. Beyond the plentiful vegan fast-casual options in town, there are now many upscale restaurants serving plant-based cuisine so innovative and tasty that even nonvegetarians regard these places as dining destinations. Additionally, chefs at some traditional fine restaurants are becoming more conscientious about making the vegetarian and vegan dining experience a special one.

The premier upscale vegan restaurant in L.A. is undoubtedly Melrose Avenue’s Crossroads Kitchen. With its espresso hardwood floors, tufted banquettes and faceted Edison bulb chandeliers, it’s nothing like the stereotypical crunchy, New Age-y vegan restaurant. Chef Tal Ronnen is a longtime vegan and began cooking to make up for the lack of fine plant-based food he encountered in his own life. “I decided to pursue a career as a chef out of sheer frustration of not being satisfied with being served steamed vegetables as entrees when dining out,” he says. Ronnen counts a number of vegan celebrities as fans, including Oprah Winfrey and Ellen DeGeneres, but believes that his food is most popular with mainstream diners. “I would say 90% of our guests are not vegan or vegetarian,” he says. “They are there because they’re interested in reducing their meat consumption and don’t want to sacrifice a good dining experience.”